README.md, before:

# AI-Bastion 🏰

### 8-Layer Security Blueprint for Autonomous AI Agents

> **Born from the OpenClaw security crisis of February 2026.**
> CVE-2026-25253 (one-click RCE), CVE-2026-24763 (sandbox bypass), CVE-2026-22708, the ClawHavoc supply chain campaign, 512 vulnerabilities in audit, 10.8% malware infection rate in ClawHub marketplace.

AI-Bastion is a defense-in-depth security system for anyone running autonomous AI agents on Linux. It provides 8 layers of protection — from network firewalls to automated incident response — designed to stop prompt injection, data exfiltration, supply chain attacks, and credential theft.

**Works with:** OpenClaw, NanoClaw, LangChain agents, CrewAI, AutoGPT, custom agents on Ollama — any AI agent running on Linux.

---

## Security Doctrine: "Intelligent Fortress"

```
Never attack. Always defend. Always share.
Defense > Offense. Intelligence > Retaliation.
```

* We **NEVER** launch offensive attacks, even against confirmed attackers
* We **ALWAYS** share threat intelligence with the community
* We use **deception** (canary tokens, honeypots) over retaliation
* We respond with **block → isolate → snapshot → alert → share**

---

## The 8 Layers

| Layer | Name | What It Does |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | **Baseline Check** | Verifies existing defenses are active (firewall, permissions, sandbox) |
| 1 | **Zero Trust Network** | nftables rules, rate limiting, DNS-over-TLS, egress control |
| 2 | **Canary Tokens** | Trap files that detect intrusions — fake API keys, fake passwords |
| 3 | **Anti-Prompt Injection** | 6 XML rules + 5 anti-exfiltration rules for SOUL.md / system prompts |
| 4 | **Monitoring** | Real-time action logging, process monitor, network monitor |
| 5 | **Integrity** | SHA-256 baseline of critical files, automatic tampering detection |
| 6 | **SOAR Response** | 4-level automated incident response (normal → alert → contain → lockdown) |
| 7 | **System Hardening** | SSH disabled, core dumps blocked, audit logging, restrictive permissions |



---

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone
git clone https://github.com/GravityZenAI/AI-Bastion.git
cd AI-Bastion

# Review what will be installed (dry run)
bash scripts/install.sh --dry-run

# Install all 8 layers
bash scripts/install.sh --all

# Or install specific layers
bash scripts/install.sh --layers 0,1,2,5

# Verify installation
bash tests/verify-all.sh
```

### One-Layer-At-A-Time (Recommended)

```bash
# Start with the basics
bash layers/00-baseline/check-baseline.sh

# Add network hardening
sudo bash layers/01-zero-trust-network/setup-nftables.sh
sudo bash layers/01-zero-trust-network/setup-dns-tls.sh

# Deploy canary traps
bash layers/02-canary-tokens/deploy-canaries.sh
bash layers/02-canary-tokens/canary-monitor.sh &

# Continue with remaining layers...
```

---

## Requirements

* **OS:** Ubuntu 22.04+ / Debian 12+ / WSL2 (Ubuntu)
* **Privileges:** sudo access for layers 1 and 7
* **Packages:** Installed automatically — `nftables`, `stubby`, `inotify-tools`, `auditd`
* **All dependencies use permissive licenses** (MIT, BSD, Apache 2.0 or system packages)

---

## Repository Structure

```
AI-Bastion/
├── README.md                          # This file
├── LICENSE                            # Apache 2.0
├── CONTRIBUTING.md                    # How to contribute
├── SECURITY.md                        # Vulnerability reporting
├── CHANGELOG.md                       # Version history
│
├── layers/                            # The 8 security layers
│   ├── 00-baseline/
│   │   └── check-baseline.sh          # Verify existing defenses
│   ├── 01-zero-trust-network/
│   │   ├── setup-nftables.sh          # Firewall rules
│   │   └── setup-dns-tls.sh           # DNS-over-TLS (Stubby)
│   ├── 02-canary-tokens/
│   │   ├── deploy-canaries.sh         # Create trap files
│   │   └── canary-monitor.sh          # Monitor access to traps
│   ├── 03-anti-prompt-injection/
│   │   ├── security-rules.xml         # Rules for SOUL.md / system prompts
│   │   └── install-rules.sh           # Merge rules into agent config
│   ├── 04-monitoring/
│   │   ├── action-logger.sh           # Log all agent actions
│   │   ├── process-monitor.sh         # Detect suspicious processes
│   │   └── network-monitor.sh         # Monitor network connections
│   ├── 05-integrity/
│   │   ├── create-baseline.sh         # Generate SHA-256 baseline
│   │   └── verify-integrity.sh        # Check files against baseline
│   ├── 06-soar-response/
│   │   └── auto-response.sh           # 4-level incident response
│   └── 07-system-hardening/
│       └── harden-system.sh           # OS-level security hardening
│
├── configs/                           # Configuration templates
│   ├── bastion.conf                   # Main configuration file
│   ├── blocked-ips.txt                # Known malicious IPs
│   ├── suspicious-processes.txt       # Process patterns to detect
│   └── stubby.yml                     # DNS-over-TLS configuration
│
├── scripts/                           # Utility scripts
│   ├── install.sh                     # Main installer
│   ├── uninstall.sh                   # Clean removal
│   └── start-fortress.sh             # Start all security layers
│
├── tests/                             # Verification suite
│   └── verify-all.sh                  # Test all 8 layers
│
├── docs/                              # Documentation
│   ├── THREAT-MODEL.md                # What we defend against
│   ├── SECURITY-DOCTRINE.md           # Our philosophy
│   ├── WHY-NOT-HACK-BACK.md           # Why we never attack
│   ├── LAYER-DETAILS.md               # Deep dive on each layer
│   └── ADAPTING-TO-YOUR-AGENT.md      # How to use with any AI agent
│
└── .github/
    └── workflows/
        └── shellcheck.yml             # CI: lint all scripts
```

---

## Threat Model

AI-Bastion defends against these documented attack vectors:

| Threat | Real-World Example | Layers That Defend |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Prompt injection (indirect)** | Attacker hides instructions in web pages/emails | 3, 4 |
| **Memory poisoning** | Agent develops persistent false beliefs | 3 |
| **Tool/skill poisoning** | ClawHavoc: 800+ malicious skills on ClawHub | 0, 2, 4, 5 |
| **Credential theft** | Infostealer extracts API keys from .env | 2, 5, 7 |
| **Data exfiltration** | Agent leaks private data to attacker's server | 1, 3, 4 |
| **Reverse shells** | Attacker gains remote access to host | 1, 4, 6 |
| **Salami slicing** | 10 benign messages gradually compromise agent | 3 |
| **Gateway exposure** | OpenClaw bound to 0.0.0.0 without auth | 0, 1 |

> Even with ALL defenses: automated attacks achieve prompt injection ~8% of the time on first attempt, ~50% with unlimited attempts ([Anthropic Claude 4.5 System Card](https://assets.anthropic.com/m/785e231869ea8b3b/original/claude-4-5-system-card.pdf)). **There is no perfect defense. Only defense in depth.**

---

## OWASP Agentic Security Mapping

AI-Bastion maps to the [OWASP Top 10 for Agentic Applications (2026)](https://genai.owasp.org/resource/owasp-top-10-for-agentic-applications-for-2026/), the industry standard for autonomous AI agent security released by the OWASP GenAI Security Project's Agentic Security Initiative (ASI).

| ASI # | Risk | AI-Bastion Coverage | Layers |
|-------|------|---------------------|--------|
| ASI01 | **Agent Behavior Hijacking** | Anti-prompt injection rules block goal redirection. SOAR auto-response contains hijacked agents. Integrity checks detect cognitive file tampering. | 3, 5, 6 |
| ASI02 | **Prompt Injection & Manipulation** | 6 XML injection defense rules + salami slicing detection + language-switch attack blocking. | 3 |
| ASI03 | **Tool Misuse & Exploitation** | Process monitoring detects 9 suspicious patterns. Network monitor catches unauthorized connections. Egress control limits outbound access. | 1, 4 |
| ASI04 | **Identity & Privilege Abuse** | System hardening enforces restrictive permissions. SSH disabled. Audit logging tracks privilege usage. | 7 |
| ASI05 | **Inadequate Guardrails & Sandboxing** | Baseline check verifies sandbox exists. nftables enforces network boundaries. See [Sandboxing Guide](#sandboxing-your-agent) below. | 0, 1 |
| ASI06 | **Sensitive Information Disclosure** | 5 anti-exfiltration rules block data leakage. Canary tokens detect unauthorized access to credentials. DNS-over-TLS prevents DNS-based exfiltration. | 1, 2, 3 |
| ASI07 | **Data Poisoning & Manipulation** | File integrity baseline detects tampering. SHA-256 verification catches modified agent configs. Memory poisoning rules in Layer 3. | 3, 5 |
| ASI08 | **DoS & Resource Exhaustion** | Rate limiting in nftables. Process monitor detects runaway processes. SOAR contains resource abuse. | 1, 4, 6 |
| ASI09 | **Insecure Supply Chain** | Canary tokens detect skill/plugin compromise (ClawHavoc pattern). Integrity checks catch tampered dependencies. All AI-Bastion dependencies use permissive licenses. | 2, 5 |
| ASI10 | **Over-reliance & Misplaced Trust** | Infrastructure-level concern. AI-Bastion enforces defense-in-depth so no single layer's failure is catastrophic. SOAR escalation ensures human notification. | 6 |

> **Coverage: 10/10 ASI categories addressed at the infrastructure level.** For runtime-level agent controls (behavioral baselines, kill switches), combine with tools like [SecureClaw](https://github.com/adversa-ai/secureclaw).

---

## Sandboxing Your Agent

AI-Bastion secures the infrastructure **around** your agent. For agent **process isolation**, choose based on your threat model:

| Isolation Level | Technology | Strength | Overhead | Best For |
|-----------------|-----------|----------|----------|----------|
| **OS-level** | [bubblewrap](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap) (bwrap) | Moderate | Minimal | Single-user, local agents |
| **Userspace kernel** | [gVisor](https://gvisor.dev/) (runsc) | Strong | 10-30% I/O | Cloud / multi-tenant |
| **MicroVM** | [Firecracker](https://firecracker-microvm.github.io/) / Kata | Strongest | ~125ms boot | Untrusted code execution |
| **Container** | Docker / Podman | Basic | Minimal | Trusted, vetted agents only |

> **Industry consensus (2026):** Standard Docker containers share the host kernel and are insufficient for AI-generated code. Anthropic uses bubblewrap for Claude Code and gVisor for Claude web. Google uses gVisor for Agent Sandbox on GKE. Vercel uses Firecracker. Choose your isolation level based on how much you trust your agent's code.

### Recommended: bubblewrap for personal agents

For single-user setups (local AI on Linux/WSL2), bubblewrap provides lightweight sandboxing without Docker overhead:

```bash
# Install
sudo apt install bubblewrap

# Run your agent in a sandbox with:
# - Read-only system binaries
# - Writable agent directory only
# - Network access (for API calls)
# - No access to other users' data
bwrap \
  --ro-bind /usr /usr \
  --ro-bind /bin /bin \
  --ro-bind /lib /lib \
  --ro-bind /lib64 /lib64 \
  --ro-bind /etc/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf \
  --ro-bind /etc/ssl/certs /etc/ssl/certs \
  --bind $HOME/.openclaw $HOME/.openclaw \
  --tmpfs /tmp \
  --dev /dev \
  --proc /proc \
  --unshare-pid \
  -- openclaw gateway
```

### For Docker users

If you already use Docker, add AI-Bastion inside the container:

```bash
# In your Dockerfile
RUN git clone https://github.com/GravityZenAI/AI-Bastion.git /opt/bastion
RUN bash /opt/bastion/scripts/install.sh --layers 0,2,3,4,5

# Layers 1 (network) and 7 (hardening) should be applied on the HOST
```

> **Important:** Standard Docker containers share the host kernel. For untrusted agent code, use gVisor (`docker run --runtime=runsc`) or Kata Containers for stronger isolation.

### For Windows (WSL2)

AI-Bastion runs inside WSL2 Ubuntu. The agent gateway on WSL2 is already partially isolated by the Hyper-V VM boundary. Combine with Windows Firewall rules to block external access to gateway ports (8000, 8888, 9999, 18789). See the companion project **AI-Bastion-Guardian** *(coming soon)* for Windows-side network protection via PowerShell.

---

## Adapting to Your Agent

AI-Bastion is designed to be **agent-agnostic**. While the examples reference OpenClaw, every layer works with any AI agent on Linux:

| Your Agent | What to Adjust |
| --- | --- |
| **OpenClaw** | Works out of the box. Layer 3 XML goes in SOUL.md |
| **LangChain / CrewAI** | Adapt Layer 3 rules to your system prompt format |
| **AutoGPT** | Adapt Layer 3 rules; Layer 0 checks need path updates |
| **Ollama + custom** | Edit `bastion.conf` to point to your agent's data directory |
| **Claude Code** | Layer 3 rules go in CLAUDE.md; everything else works as-is |

See [`docs/ADAPTING-TO-YOUR-AGENT.md`](docs/ADAPTING-TO-YOUR-AGENT.md) for detailed instructions.

---

## Comparison with Other Tools

| Feature | AI-Bastion | SecureClaw | openclaw-secure-start | SaferClaw |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Agent-agnostic | ✅ Any agent | ❌ OpenClaw only | ❌ OpenClaw only | ❌ OpenClaw only |
| Network hardening | ✅ nftables + DNS-over-TLS | ❌ | ✅ UFW basic | ✅ UFW |
| Canary tokens | ✅ 3 types + monitor | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| Anti-prompt injection | ✅ 11 rules (6+5) | ✅ 15 rules | ❌ | ❌ |
| Process monitoring | ✅ 9 suspicious patterns | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| File integrity | ✅ SHA-256 baseline | ✅ Memory integrity | ❌ | ❌ |
| Automated response | ✅ 4-level SOAR | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| System hardening | ✅ SSH, core dumps, audit | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ systemd |
| OWASP ASI mapping | ✅ 10/10 (infrastructure) | ✅ 10/10 (runtime) | ❌ | ❌ |
| Sandboxing guidance | ✅ bwrap, gVisor, Firecracker | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| License | Apache 2.0 | MIT | MIT | MIT |

> **AI-Bastion provides infrastructure-level OWASP ASI coverage. SecureClaw provides runtime-level coverage. They are complementary — use both for defense-in-depth.**

---

## Companion Projects

**[rust-ai-governance-pack](https://github.com/GravityZenAI/rust-ai-governance-pack)** — Governs HOW AI writes code (8 verification gates, 27 test katas, CI/CD pipeline for Rust).

**AI-Bastion-Guardian** *(coming soon)* — Windows-side security for AI agents running in WSL2. PowerShell modules for firewall rules, egress control, credential protection, and WSL2 port exposure detection.

Together:

* **rust-ai-governance-pack** = Code governance (the rules AI follows when coding)
* **AI-Bastion** = Infrastructure security (the fortress AI lives inside)
* **AI-Bastion-Guardian** = Windows perimeter (the outer wall for WSL2 users)

---

## License

Apache License 2.0 — See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

All external dependencies are system packages available through apt with permissive or system licenses (nftables, stubby/BSD-3, inotify-tools/GPL system util, auditd/GPL system util). AI-Bastion scripts themselves are original work under Apache 2.0.

---

## Credits

Created by **[GravityZen AI](https://github.com/GravityZenAI)** — Trinidad Operativa (Cerebro + Manos + Jefe)

Built during the February 2026 OpenClaw security crisis as a response to real threats, real CVEs, and real malware campaigns. Every layer exists because something actually happened.

---

*"The butler is brilliant. Just make sure he remembers to lock the door."*
— Jamieson O'Reilly, Dvuln

Commit message:

docs: add ROADMAP with future improvements and v2.0/v3.0 plans
Also updated AI-Bastion-Guardian references from 'coming soon' to live GitHub link.

README.md, after:

# AI-Bastion 🏰

### 8-Layer Security Blueprint for Autonomous AI Agents

> **Born from the OpenClaw security crisis of February 2026.**
> CVE-2026-25253 (one-click RCE), CVE-2026-24763 (sandbox bypass), CVE-2026-22708, the ClawHavoc supply chain campaign, 512 vulnerabilities in audit, 10.8% malware infection rate in ClawHub marketplace.

AI-Bastion is a defense-in-depth security system for anyone running autonomous AI agents on Linux. It provides 8 layers of protection — from network firewalls to automated incident response — designed to stop prompt injection, data exfiltration, supply chain attacks, and credential theft.

**Works with:** OpenClaw, NanoClaw, LangChain agents, CrewAI, AutoGPT, custom agents on Ollama — any AI agent running on Linux.

---

## Security Doctrine: "Intelligent Fortress"

```
Never attack. Always defend. Always share.
Defense > Offense. Intelligence > Retaliation.
```

* We **NEVER** launch offensive attacks, even against confirmed attackers
* We **ALWAYS** share threat intelligence with the community
* We use **deception** (canary tokens, honeypots) over retaliation
* We respond with **block → isolate → snapshot → alert → share**

---

## The 8 Layers

| Layer | Name | What It Does |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0 | **Baseline Check** | Verifies existing defenses are active (firewall, permissions, sandbox) |
| 1 | **Zero Trust Network** | nftables rules, rate limiting, DNS-over-TLS, egress control |
| 2 | **Canary Tokens** | Trap files that detect intrusions — fake API keys, fake passwords |
| 3 | **Anti-Prompt Injection** | 6 XML rules + 5 anti-exfiltration rules for SOUL.md / system prompts |
| 4 | **Monitoring** | Real-time action logging, process monitor, network monitor |
| 5 | **Integrity** | SHA-256 baseline of critical files, automatic tampering detection |
| 6 | **SOAR Response** | 4-level automated incident response (normal → alert → contain → lockdown) |
| 7 | **System Hardening** | SSH disabled, core dumps blocked, audit logging, restrictive permissions |



---

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone
git clone https://github.com/GravityZenAI/AI-Bastion.git
cd AI-Bastion

# Review what will be installed (dry run)
bash scripts/install.sh --dry-run

# Install all 8 layers
bash scripts/install.sh --all

# Or install specific layers
bash scripts/install.sh --layers 0,1,2,5

# Verify installation
bash tests/verify-all.sh
```

### One-Layer-At-A-Time (Recommended)

```bash
# Start with the basics
bash layers/00-baseline/check-baseline.sh

# Add network hardening
sudo bash layers/01-zero-trust-network/setup-nftables.sh
sudo bash layers/01-zero-trust-network/setup-dns-tls.sh

# Deploy canary traps
bash layers/02-canary-tokens/deploy-canaries.sh
bash layers/02-canary-tokens/canary-monitor.sh &

# Continue with remaining layers...
```

---

## Requirements

* **OS:** Ubuntu 22.04+ / Debian 12+ / WSL2 (Ubuntu)
* **Privileges:** sudo access for layers 1 and 7
* **Packages:** Installed automatically — `nftables`, `stubby`, `inotify-tools`, `auditd`
* **All dependencies use permissive licenses** (MIT, BSD, Apache 2.0 or system packages)

---

## Repository Structure

```
AI-Bastion/
├── README.md                          # This file
├── LICENSE                            # Apache 2.0
├── CONTRIBUTING.md                    # How to contribute
├── SECURITY.md                        # Vulnerability reporting
├── CHANGELOG.md                       # Version history
│
├── layers/                            # The 8 security layers
│   ├── 00-baseline/
│   │   └── check-baseline.sh          # Verify existing defenses
│   ├── 01-zero-trust-network/
│   │   ├── setup-nftables.sh          # Firewall rules
│   │   └── setup-dns-tls.sh           # DNS-over-TLS (Stubby)
│   ├── 02-canary-tokens/
│   │   ├── deploy-canaries.sh         # Create trap files
│   │   └── canary-monitor.sh          # Monitor access to traps
│   ├── 03-anti-prompt-injection/
│   │   ├── security-rules.xml         # Rules for SOUL.md / system prompts
│   │   └── install-rules.sh           # Merge rules into agent config
│   ├── 04-monitoring/
│   │   ├── action-logger.sh           # Log all agent actions
│   │   ├── process-monitor.sh         # Detect suspicious processes
│   │   └── network-monitor.sh         # Monitor network connections
│   ├── 05-integrity/
│   │   ├── create-baseline.sh         # Generate SHA-256 baseline
│   │   └── verify-integrity.sh        # Check files against baseline
│   ├── 06-soar-response/
│   │   └── auto-response.sh           # 4-level incident response
│   └── 07-system-hardening/
│       └── harden-system.sh           # OS-level security hardening
│
├── configs/                           # Configuration templates
│   ├── bastion.conf                   # Main configuration file
│   ├── blocked-ips.txt                # Known malicious IPs
│   ├── suspicious-processes.txt       # Process patterns to detect
│   └── stubby.yml                     # DNS-over-TLS configuration
│
├── scripts/                           # Utility scripts
│   ├── install.sh                     # Main installer
│   ├── uninstall.sh                   # Clean removal
│   └── start-fortress.sh             # Start all security layers
│
├── tests/                             # Verification suite
│   └── verify-all.sh                  # Test all 8 layers
│
├── docs/                              # Documentation
│   ├── THREAT-MODEL.md                # What we defend against
│   ├── SECURITY-DOCTRINE.md           # Our philosophy
│   ├── WHY-NOT-HACK-BACK.md           # Why we never attack
│   ├── LAYER-DETAILS.md               # Deep dive on each layer
│   └── ADAPTING-TO-YOUR-AGENT.md      # How to use with any AI agent
│
└── .github/
    └── workflows/
        └── shellcheck.yml             # CI: lint all scripts
```

---

## Threat Model

AI-Bastion defends against these documented attack vectors:

| Threat | Real-World Example | Layers That Defend |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Prompt injection (indirect)** | Attacker hides instructions in web pages/emails | 3, 4 |
| **Memory poisoning** | Agent develops persistent false beliefs | 3 |
| **Tool/skill poisoning** | ClawHavoc: 800+ malicious skills on ClawHub | 0, 2, 4, 5 |
| **Credential theft** | Infostealer extracts API keys from .env | 2, 5, 7 |
| **Data exfiltration** | Agent leaks private data to attacker's server | 1, 3, 4 |
| **Reverse shells** | Attacker gains remote access to host | 1, 4, 6 |
| **Salami slicing** | 10 benign messages gradually compromise agent | 3 |
| **Gateway exposure** | OpenClaw bound to 0.0.0.0 without auth | 0, 1 |

> Even with ALL defenses: automated attacks achieve prompt injection ~8% of the time on first attempt, ~50% with unlimited attempts ([Anthropic Claude 4.5 System Card](https://assets.anthropic.com/m/785e231869ea8b3b/original/claude-4-5-system-card.pdf)). **There is no perfect defense. Only defense in depth.**

---

## OWASP Agentic Security Mapping

AI-Bastion maps to the [OWASP Top 10 for Agentic Applications (2026)](https://genai.owasp.org/resource/owasp-top-10-for-agentic-applications-for-2026/), the industry standard for autonomous AI agent security released by the OWASP GenAI Security Project's Agentic Security Initiative (ASI).

| ASI # | Risk | AI-Bastion Coverage | Layers |
|-------|------|---------------------|--------|
| ASI01 | **Agent Behavior Hijacking** | Anti-prompt injection rules block goal redirection. SOAR auto-response contains hijacked agents. Integrity checks detect cognitive file tampering. | 3, 5, 6 |
| ASI02 | **Prompt Injection & Manipulation** | 6 XML injection defense rules + salami slicing detection + language-switch attack blocking. | 3 |
| ASI03 | **Tool Misuse & Exploitation** | Process monitoring detects 9 suspicious patterns. Network monitor catches unauthorized connections. Egress control limits outbound access. | 1, 4 |
| ASI04 | **Identity & Privilege Abuse** | System hardening enforces restrictive permissions. SSH disabled. Audit logging tracks privilege usage. | 7 |
| ASI05 | **Inadequate Guardrails & Sandboxing** | Baseline check verifies sandbox exists. nftables enforces network boundaries. See [Sandboxing Guide](#sandboxing-your-agent) below. | 0, 1 |
| ASI06 | **Sensitive Information Disclosure** | 5 anti-exfiltration rules block data leakage. Canary tokens detect unauthorized access to credentials. DNS-over-TLS prevents DNS-based exfiltration. | 1, 2, 3 |
| ASI07 | **Data Poisoning & Manipulation** | File integrity baseline detects tampering. SHA-256 verification catches modified agent configs. Memory poisoning rules in Layer 3. | 3, 5 |
| ASI08 | **DoS & Resource Exhaustion** | Rate limiting in nftables. Process monitor detects runaway processes. SOAR contains resource abuse. | 1, 4, 6 |
| ASI09 | **Insecure Supply Chain** | Canary tokens detect skill/plugin compromise (ClawHavoc pattern). Integrity checks catch tampered dependencies. All AI-Bastion dependencies use permissive licenses. | 2, 5 |
| ASI10 | **Over-reliance & Misplaced Trust** | Infrastructure-level concern. AI-Bastion enforces defense-in-depth so no single layer's failure is catastrophic. SOAR escalation ensures human notification. | 6 |

> **Coverage: 10/10 ASI categories addressed at the infrastructure level.** For runtime-level agent controls (behavioral baselines, kill switches), combine with tools like [SecureClaw](https://github.com/adversa-ai/secureclaw).

---

## Sandboxing Your Agent

AI-Bastion secures the infrastructure **around** your agent. For agent **process isolation**, choose based on your threat model:

| Isolation Level | Technology | Strength | Overhead | Best For |
|-----------------|-----------|----------|----------|----------|
| **OS-level** | [bubblewrap](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap) (bwrap) | Moderate | Minimal | Single-user, local agents |
| **Userspace kernel** | [gVisor](https://gvisor.dev/) (runsc) | Strong | 10-30% I/O | Cloud / multi-tenant |
| **MicroVM** | [Firecracker](https://firecracker-microvm.github.io/) / Kata | Strongest | ~125ms boot | Untrusted code execution |
| **Container** | Docker / Podman | Basic | Minimal | Trusted, vetted agents only |

> **Industry consensus (2026):** Standard Docker containers share the host kernel and are insufficient for AI-generated code. Anthropic uses bubblewrap for Claude Code and gVisor for Claude web. Google uses gVisor for Agent Sandbox on GKE. Vercel uses Firecracker. Choose your isolation level based on how much you trust your agent's code.

### Recommended: bubblewrap for personal agents

For single-user setups (local AI on Linux/WSL2), bubblewrap provides lightweight sandboxing without Docker overhead:

```bash
# Install
sudo apt install bubblewrap

# Run your agent in a sandbox with:
# - Read-only system binaries
# - Writable agent directory only
# - Network access (for API calls)
# - No access to other users' data
bwrap \
  --ro-bind /usr /usr \
  --ro-bind /bin /bin \
  --ro-bind /lib /lib \
  --ro-bind /lib64 /lib64 \
  --ro-bind /etc/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf \
  --ro-bind /etc/ssl/certs /etc/ssl/certs \
  --bind $HOME/.openclaw $HOME/.openclaw \
  --tmpfs /tmp \
  --dev /dev \
  --proc /proc \
  --unshare-pid \
  -- openclaw gateway
```

### For Docker users

If you already use Docker, add AI-Bastion inside the container:

```bash
# In your Dockerfile
RUN git clone https://github.com/GravityZenAI/AI-Bastion.git /opt/bastion
RUN bash /opt/bastion/scripts/install.sh --layers 0,2,3,4,5

# Layers 1 (network) and 7 (hardening) should be applied on the HOST
```

> **Important:** Standard Docker containers share the host kernel. For untrusted agent code, use gVisor (`docker run --runtime=runsc`) or Kata Containers for stronger isolation.

### For Windows (WSL2)

AI-Bastion runs inside WSL2 Ubuntu. The agent gateway on WSL2 is already partially isolated by the Hyper-V VM boundary. Combine with Windows Firewall rules to block external access to gateway ports (8000, 8888, 9999, 18789). See the companion project **[AI-Bastion-Guardian](https://github.com/GravityZenAI/AI-Bastion-Guardian)** for Windows-side network protection via PowerShell.

---

## Adapting to Your Agent

AI-Bastion is designed to be **agent-agnostic**. While the examples reference OpenClaw, every layer works with any AI agent on Linux:

| Your Agent | What to Adjust |
| --- | --- |
| **OpenClaw** | Works out of the box. Layer 3 XML goes in SOUL.md |
| **LangChain / CrewAI** | Adapt Layer 3 rules to your system prompt format |
| **AutoGPT** | Adapt Layer 3 rules; Layer 0 checks need path updates |
| **Ollama + custom** | Edit `bastion.conf` to point to your agent's data directory |
| **Claude Code** | Layer 3 rules go in CLAUDE.md; everything else works as-is |

See [`docs/ADAPTING-TO-YOUR-AGENT.md`](docs/ADAPTING-TO-YOUR-AGENT.md) for detailed instructions.

---

## Comparison with Other Tools

| Feature | AI-Bastion | SecureClaw | openclaw-secure-start | SaferClaw |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Agent-agnostic | ✅ Any agent | ❌ OpenClaw only | ❌ OpenClaw only | ❌ OpenClaw only |
| Network hardening | ✅ nftables + DNS-over-TLS | ❌ | ✅ UFW basic | ✅ UFW |
| Canary tokens | ✅ 3 types + monitor | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| Anti-prompt injection | ✅ 11 rules (6+5) | ✅ 15 rules | ❌ | ❌ |
| Process monitoring | ✅ 9 suspicious patterns | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| File integrity | ✅ SHA-256 baseline | ✅ Memory integrity | ❌ | ❌ |
| Automated response | ✅ 4-level SOAR | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| System hardening | ✅ SSH, core dumps, audit | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ systemd |
| OWASP ASI mapping | ✅ 10/10 (infrastructure) | ✅ 10/10 (runtime) | ❌ | ❌ |
| Sandboxing guidance | ✅ bwrap, gVisor, Firecracker | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| License | Apache 2.0 | MIT | MIT | MIT |

> **AI-Bastion provides infrastructure-level OWASP ASI coverage. SecureClaw provides runtime-level coverage. They are complementary — use both for defense-in-depth.**

---

## Companion Projects

**[rust-ai-governance-pack](https://github.com/GravityZenAI/rust-ai-governance-pack)** — Governs HOW AI writes code (8 verification gates, 27 test katas, CI/CD pipeline for Rust).

**[AI-Bastion-Guardian](https://github.com/GravityZenAI/AI-Bastion-Guardian)** — Windows-side security for AI agents running in WSL2. PowerShell modules for firewall rules, egress control, credential protection, and WSL2 port exposure detection.

Together:

* **rust-ai-governance-pack** = Code governance (the rules AI follows when coding)
* **AI-Bastion** = Infrastructure security (the fortress AI lives inside)
* **AI-Bastion-Guardian** = Windows perimeter (the outer wall for WSL2 users)

---

## Roadmap

See [ROADMAP.md](ROADMAP.md) for planned features including compiled Rust/Go core, real-time dashboard, eBPF monitoring, and Kubernetes support.

---

## License

Apache License 2.0 — See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

All external dependencies are system packages available through apt with permissive or system licenses (nftables, stubby/BSD-3, inotify-tools/GPL system util, auditd/GPL system util). AI-Bastion scripts themselves are original work under Apache 2.0.

---

## Credits

Created by **[GravityZen AI](https://github.com/GravityZenAI)** — Trinidad Operativa (Cerebro + Manos + Jefe)

Built during the February 2026 OpenClaw security crisis as a response to real threats, real CVEs, and real malware campaigns. Every layer exists because something actually happened.

---

*"The butler is brilliant. Just make sure he remembers to lock the door."*
— Jamieson O'Reilly, Dvuln
